doc: add decision docs for decision meeting 15.07.2021 (#3919)
ElektraInitiative/libelektra: doc/decisions/error_handling.md

# Error Handling

## Problem

Currently, a lot of functions return the error value, regardless of error. These poses some problems, for instance authors of bindings, where it is hard to tell which error exactly occured. A big improvement to this would be returning different error codes for different types of errors, in order to be able to provide better information in cases of errors. Some functions also make use of an `errorKey`.

While this seems like a decent approach, to provide additional informations in cases of error, it is currently very badly documented. It is not really transparent for the users of the function, what kind of information is included in the `errorKey` and even which messages could possibly be returned.

## Constraints

We also have to consider that many parts of the API very constrained in what values they can use for error codes. If a function returns a pointer the only possible error value by definition is NULL.

## Assumptions

## Considered Alternatives

- Change return types for many functions across the API

## Decision

> - Add documentation for errorKey to Doxygen

Reviewer: Just to be sure, this means add documentation in one central location and link to that?

Author: We haven't really discussed that in the meeting, i forgot to mention it sadly. From the discussion on the issue it seems that this was the preferred solution.

Reviewer 2: We already have `doc/dev/error-*`, so updating and link them into the API docu of `kdb*` should be enough.

- Add second channel for getting information about errors

> - Return additional information about errors from functions where errors can be expected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Return error codes directly from functions where failures are expected, e.g. `kdbGet`, `keySetName`
```

To clarify further, IMO this should be the distinction between expected and unexpected failures:
- Expected failures are hard or impossible to detect before calling a function. For example an invalid key name is hard to detect (in general) without calling `keySetName` or a similar function. IO errors during `kdbGet` are impossible to detect beforehand.
- Unexpected failures are errors that can easily prevented by the caller. For example it is very easy to check for `NULL` pointers or locked keys before calling a function.

To be even more concrete, if the check to prevent an error case is almost as expensive as the function call itself (e.g. checking for invalid key names before `keySetName`), then we should return a specific error directly. Depending on the kind of function "return directly" could mean via return value or `errorKey`.

# Error Handling

## Problem

> Currently, a lot of functions return the error value, regardless of error. These poses some problems, for instance authors of bindings, where it is hard to tell which error exactly occurred. A big improvement to this would be returning different error codes for different types of errors, in order to be able to provide better information in cases of errors. Some functions also make use of an `errorKey`.

Reviewer 2: Be more concrete. Afaik the only problems are:

- name modifications which can be either invalid name or locking the key name
- getting values of (non-)binary keys, see also #4194

While this seems like a decent approach, to provide additional informations in cases of error, it is currently very badly documented. It is not really transparent for the users of the function, what kind of information is included in the `errorKey` and even which messages could possibly be returned.

## Constraints

We also have to consider that many parts of the API very constrained in what values they can use for error codes. If a function returns a pointer the only possible error value by definition is NULL.

## Assumptions

## Considered Alternatives

> - Change return types for many functions across the API

Reviewer 2: We could also fix the concrete instances of where multiple errors exist.

## Decision

- Update documentation in `doc/dev/error-*` and link to them in the documentation
  for the module `kdb`
- Add second channel for getting information about errors
- Return error codes directly from functions where failures are expected, e.g. `kdbGet`, `keySetName`
- Harmonize return values from all functions and move error reporting to second channel

## Rationale

> This simplifies and unifies error reporting across all functions. It also introduces

Reviewer 2: On the contrary: it would make it more complicated and if we are not very careful less unified.
